
HTTP/HTTPS:
the world wide web.  a protocol. a standard.  HTTP is a protocol. that allows the fetching of 
resources. clients and servers can communicate by sending messages over the internet. 
requests to a server and the server responds.   HTTP is the language that lets us communicate
between client and server.  A protocol, HTTP is simple we have 4 methods: 
HTTP request:
GET, POST, PUT , DELETE 
Ajax- fetch documents and update a webpage on demand. 

server status codes - response from the server.

go to example.com and go to dev tools. then network tab. 
turn off the filter.  refresh the page.  check the headers,  then response. tab. 

sending data to a server? our register.html  file form we made.   POST  . two ways:
1. Query strings.  Key and value. method="GET"   
2. the second way is sending info through the body. to do this we use a POST request.
to send some data to the server ...  A post form. 

one solution to the privacy issue was HTTPS - hypertext transfer protocol secure.
Uses transport layer security.  encrypted. now the potential hacker will only get gibberish. 
make sure to use HTTPS.   the form - now we can send more data. using get or post. 
through a body or a query string. 
client server communication. 


JSON: JavaScript Object Notation
JSON is a syntax for storing and exchanging data.
JSON is text, written with JavaScript object notation.   
its used to send data between machines.  An object tree? JSON is better. 

JSON:   A STANDARD WAY TO SEND DATA OVER THE WIRES and to receive it.  both XML and JSOn can
be used to receuve data from a web server. JSON uses a JS object like synthax.  
JSON format is better. more efficient.   in JSON everything has to be a string wrapped 
around double quotes "" ...  
javascript comes with its own json function -   JSON.parse()   ... also  JSON.stringify(obj);
stringify to convert it into a json string, then send it to the webserver . over HTTP. 

Originally, the only way to submit some form data to a server was through the <form> tag in 
HTML. As we have learned, it can do a POST or a GET request. With JSON you can now grab the 
contents of the <input> in a form and submit those with JSON instead of as a form data. You 
can now submit to the server 
whenever you want without it necessarily being a <form>, through AJAX.. What is AJAX you might 
say?



